welcome to 3gpp myths vs. reality this
is session 717 my name is ELISA
Hutchison I'm the QuickTime product
manager in the QuickTime product
marketing group and I'm joined up here
by David singer who is an architect in
our quick time engineering group we're
both actually going to do the session
today so I'm your host and a speaker
along with Dave we'd like to take
general questions at the end of the
session but we're happy to take some
clarifying questions throughout the
session as we go so let's get started so
hopefully many of you are able to attend
our quick time State of the Union
yesterday with Frank Casanova the
director of QuickTime product marketing
and Tim shaft is VP of our interactive
media group we're going to build upon a
lot of the items they talked about in
that session if you are able to attend
if you weren't able to attend that
session we would like to introduce you
to mobile multimedia we'd like to go
into a lot of detail about the standard
and that we'd also also like to talk
about quick times support for the mobile
multimedia standard which is 3gpp but
before we actually get into a lot of
detail about mobile multimedia standards
I'd like to spend a little bit of time
talking about standards in the
telecommunications industry so if you
look at cellular standards today I like
to say they're sort of all over the map
for those of us that aren't really
familiar with them and this chart is
intentionally hard to read I don't
expect you to be able to pick out each
little country and say I understand what
standards they're using the radio
network standards generally fall into
two categories there's sort of a cdma
family of technologies for the radio
networks and then there is a gsm
technology family and what you can see
here is that distribute across all
geographies some countries tend to be
towards one so europe has adopted
predominantly the gsm family of
technologies then you'll see countries
in Asia that have primarily adopted the
cdma family of technologies and then
you'll see a mixture of both and that's
what we have here in the United States
but all of these technologies have
evolved over
and we talk about them in terms of
generations so the first generation
technology started with both cdma and
gsm and I've also put on here a column
for tdma which was a first generation
technology that was developed here in
United States by 18 p but as you
progress up to the 2g technologies
you're actually talking about not just
voice but adding a data layer for the
radio networks and those have some
different acronyms that you've heard
about before like GPRS for example and
that's where the GSM and PMA
technologies actually came together
under that GSM family of technologies as
we go oh and I went the wrong way as we
progress forward you'll see that with
the two dot five and 3d technologies
there's a whole other another set of
words that people use to talk about the
technology so you progress into what's
called cdma2000 with different one x
versions then you also progress into
what's called UMTS technologies and a
similar technology that's built on top
of that in Japan which is called wcdma
so we don't want to spend a lot of time
on these particular technologies the
idea here is there are really two
families of generation technologies as
you move up in your data speeds and they
exist in different places across the
world when you talk about speeds you're
probably talking in the 2g somewhere
around 9600 214 dot for kilobits per
second as you go to the two dot five
technologies you're looking more like 28
8 and this varies and then as you start
with 3g the definition of 3g
technologies is to start with data rates
of about 144 kilobits per second
progressing all the way up to forecasted
speeds between 1 & 2 megabits megabytes
per second get it again
sorry about that so what is 3g i mean 3d
is 3g is the foundation that you hear
about all the time it's what you think
you need to have for mobile multimedia
so let's just break it down a little bit
so that we understand some basics first
of all three to have a 3g technology
that bandwidth needs to be licensed by
carriers so the carrier's bought the
bandwidth then they had to build the
high-speed packet switch radio networks
when those things are in place then you
can have rich multimedia services that
you can view these services through
these multimedia devices that are now
some some of them are now in the market
today but all of this has been
surrounded by a lot of hype we've been
hearing about 3g for a long time and so
of course that's produced a fair I'm
sorry the quicker we use a clicker which
way do I go on the quicker roll all
right so this is produced a fair bit of
skepticism so you know just when you've
heard about something you've heard about
in her about you don't see it
immediately there's a lot of people that
don't really think that this was going
to work so you've read things I'm sure
that says the operators that purchase
video that these bandwidth they're
they're destined for bankruptcy and you
know it's 3g just another internet
disaster and those are some of the myths
that we wanted to talk about today and
then really talk about the reality of
some of those statements so the
realities are that all of these services
that can deliver mobile multimedia don't
actually rely on complete Network build
out of 3g if you will so for instance a
lot of mobile multimedia can be
downloaded just fine or messaging
services are working just perfectly on
2g and to dot 5g networks that we even
have today with GPRS with some of the
major cities is totally in the United
States wow that's a lot louder
okay then the other thing we wanted to
talk about it said not every every
carrier went bankrupt so yes of course
there were highly publicized auctions
for some of this bandwidth where people
paid lots and lots of money but not all
countries paid tons of money and not all
carriers bought their competitors to get
into this space so not everyone went
bankrupt and finally we believe and
other people believe that the services
will lead the network build-outs just as
it did with Internet technologies where
we were all just perfectly satisfied to
dial up on our modems to view the
internet and see how that works but
because we found really valuable
services to go and look at on the
internet the the public actually created
a demand for higher speed networks and
now we all have access to things like
dsl and cable for broader bandwidth
connections and we believe the same
thing will happen with the 3g
technologies as they progress all right
okay and some other does is a reality
here I put a couple close up in a couple
of statistics but they are a very
positive industry analysts reports about
the rollout of 3G networks and also the
business that there is there truly is in
in 3G mobile multimedia so you see
numbers from IDC forecasts of a 30
billion dollar industry by 2006 so
there's a real forecasted industry here
and there are real rollouts happening
right now of this service that make it a
reality for you as developers now i'm
going to hand it over to Dave singer to
talk about how this is really relevant
for QuickTime thicker so we talked about
the those parts of the network that the
operators have produced and what we're
concerned of course about in multimedia
is things like video playback video
recording and being able to get content
on and off those phone I'm being able to
send a message and multimedia message to
a phone and maybe being able to load
content of a web server on to a phone
and it's worth noticing but of those and
all those need just a handset and the
service they don't actually rely on
reliable high-speed bandwidth so if you
send a message or you do a download over
a 2g or two and a half gene
work instead of three well it's a little
slower but you still get it the only
service we actually need that full
network build out and a reliable one of
that is it course streaming so it's one
of the reasons we expect to see
streaming lagging these other services
if the operators have to both build out
and get confidence with their networks
before they can deploy the streaming
services so I'm going to talk a little
bit about where the Sounders come from
and what's in them there are two major
bodies developing standards for the 3g
world there's 3gpp and 3gpp2 imaginative
the name pair of bodies 3gpp stands for
third generation partnership project
it's actually a partnership of quite a
lot of standards bodies from all over
the world and they're building on the
GSM heritage of cell phone standards and
then 3gpp2 is building on the CDMA the
cdma2000 heritage of earth standards the
3gpp designed to provide a really high
speed network so that you can get
interesting multimedia content to
devices and do all sorts of fascinating
higher value and interpreting services
it's being adopted by a whole bunch of
companies all over the world so what
we've got here is a variety of companies
from handset manufacturers operators
infrastructure makers and computer
people like ourselves so there's a lot
of supports behind this standard all
over the place I'm going to go a little
into what is in the multimedia part of
the 3g spec 3gpp standards obviously
cover everything from the radio network
and how you do modulation all the way
through to the final services that you
present to the user in quick time of
course oh I'm interested I'm curious
about the radio network what we really
care about is the multimedia services so
I'm going to focus in on that and in
that will find that there's a package
including speech codecs general audio or
music codecs video codecs there's a
container file format into which you can
put those and then above that container
file format there are delivery
frameworks such as smile 20 they
synchronize media integration language
there's MIDI music still images and so
on that you can place into messages and
in to smile at overlays
in terms of speech codecs the primary
speech codec used in 3g multimedia in
the 3gpp world is a mr adaptive
multi-rate codec this is the codec that
the telephone itself uses when it's
making a phone call it's adaptive
because the 3g networks can vary its
bandwidth and when it's being used in a
telephony context the product can then
adapt to the available bandwidth so this
getting from the network this means of
course in QuickTime or in multimedia
terms we can treat it as a variable rate
codec it is a classic 8 kilohertz
sampling rate telephony cold air kit so
you know a Celt based codec so it is
optimized for handling speech it will
handle all the content but like you've
tried i'm sure you've tried the pure
voice codec some of you in the QuickTime
walls on general content you'll know
that speech codecs are not the best
codec for handling music it's adaptive
and then it switches between various
modes and in those modes you'll actually
recognize some historic codecs that
you'll Reno and life such as the GSM
full and half rate codecs and so on in
the stable is also a higher sampling
rate richer sounding wideband codec
that's optional and the spec I haven't
seen it much of it happening at the
moment on in the 3g world but there is a
khodet waiting in the wings out if you
want to do higher-quality speech and
those two can be packed in their own
file format there's a dot AMR file
format which you can use and a lot of
the phone support that for recording
voice notes or parts of calls in
progress if you have a phone that allow
you to record in general audio terms
were really lucky we have been leading
the world leading AAC codec this is
probably the best music codec out there
recently actually there was a listening
test on the internet I don't know
whether you heard and the one that
you've got in QuickTime actually came
out tops in the listening test of
between the AAC codecs available so you
not only have the world's leading codec
we do have a world-leading
implementation of a world-leading codec
what is the 3g spec is the same simple
version of mpeg-4 AAC that we're using
that's used in itunes onion visas of use
in digital radio mondiale and so on so
you'll find AAC is getting deployed
quite widely across a whole variety of
services not just 3g so this is a
definitely a forward-looking codec from
the 3g group when their doctor did a few
years ago in video codecs there's a
couple of choices in the sec the basic
manda
free codec is h.263 i'm going to give
you profile and level numbers for those
of you who are curious i'm not going to
explain the features of a profile
because i can never remember I always
have to look it up myself so the basic
profile 0 level 10 is a basic h.263
codec no fancy options and so on level 3
profiles really sorry is permissible in
the spec but it's not mandated and then
also available in the spec is mpeg-4
video and you'll find some of the cell
phones but not all implementing mpeg-4
as well also in the 3g spec I didn't
show this in the overview slide that
support for timed text and actually if
you look at the specification you're
going to go all that's awfully familiar
that looks like QuickTime time text and
that was because I wrote it and I'm lazy
the the the 3g spec however is improved
in quite a number of areas it's simpler
than the QuickTime specification in that
we allow only iframes only key frames as
it were there's no difference frames and
it's modernized compared to the quick to
our implementation so it's based on
Unicode instead of Macintosh character
coding and it allows vertical writing
and so on you get full out for controls
for both your foreground and background
colors so in some sense is it's more
powerful and more complicated but in
many respects it's simpler this allows
you to do subtitling credits karaoke
michael links and so on and it's
currently deployed in docomo service and
home sets all those that i just talked
about the speech codec the video codecs
the general audio codec they can be
wrapped in the cut in the 3g multimedia
file format which in turn was based on
the mpeg-4 file format which we know and
love which of course was based on the
QuickTime file format so if you were to
open one of these 3g files you go I
recognize that it's got to move at a
minute and you'd be right so also in the
3g files over there is the intrinsic
file type atom which was introduced by
the jpeg 2000 standards and that allows
you to mark a file of saying which
standards do I think this file complies
to or in particular what readers that
implement particular standard should be
allowed to play this file so you can say
i want this far to be playable both by
an mpeg-4 player and by 3gp player by
carefully marking the way you build this
this atom in the file so there's
intrinsic typing in the file as well as
extrinsic from its name or its mime type
the 3gpp2 standards also uses the same
file format which is kind of convenient
to you but they move use of course their
own suite of codecs so their voice codec
is one of them as they have several is
the pure voice codec that's already in
good time that you're familiar with they
chose layer 3 audio rather than AAC for
their general audio because of its
deployment rather than forward-looking
but as I say the same file format and
it's worth looking just for a moment at
the evolution of the file format so way
back in the midst of time when some of
us were still sitting in our high chairs
and eating soft food and the QuickTime
file format was written in 1990 actually
and standish tin 1991 with the first
ship of QuickTime and that was
successfully used by the QuickTime group
alone for quite a number of years until
mpeg-4 finally decided they were you
ought to have a standard file format
they never had for mp1 and 2 and so the
MPX for file format was derived from
quicktime in the late 90s well that
triggered the whole flurry of activity
around the multimedia industry the
motion jpeg group and the 3g group both
looked at that and said you know we
could we could use that file format if
we just change the media types in there
just in the way the quicktime has in the
past and so we built motion jpeg 2000
and the 3g spec derived in a rather
awkward way from the mpeg-4 spec because
the mpeg-4 speck said of course that you
had to use mpeg-4 coding standards and
these people wanted to use something
different well the committee eventually
decided that this was a mess and that we
really wanted a single file format again
so they said why don't you guys get
together and define a base that doesn't
talk about any of these coding standards
that tells us how to structure a file
that we're calling the ISO media file
format and that really is the direct
inheritor of the QuickTime one because
it's an abstract container and on top of
that we can now put and pick for again
mpeg-4 version 2 and motion jpeg version
to a rehosted as it were in the ISO
media file format and that of course
allows other groups go to 3gpp and 3gpp2
to do the same so this ISO file format
this family is really becoming the de
facto standard for multimedia containers
in the industry everybody is using it a
verra fact there are other bodies here
that I ran out of space to put little
bubble so I didn't put them on this
diagram but for instance the SD video
card Association is also using this file
format for their standards for
multimedia on it
video cards so where are these standards
how they doing the standards themselves
are mature and published so for example
if you were to look at in the 3gpp world
at the specification with the
wonderfully mnemonic 26 two three four
you would find the specification for
multimedia container file and packet
switch to streaming and in turn and
multimedia and so on the format's under
protocols are specified and published
and that includes specifications for
messaging email like operations download
HTTP web like operations streaming and
so on but today I think you're going to
see more downloading and messaging than
streaming because the operators need to
build up those high speed networks we
need to get confident about them and you
need to be able to afford to pay for the
bandwidth which it tends to be a little
difficult when they're doing their
initial deployment because they're
charging a lot of money for bandwidth so
you'll see streaming coming but you're
going to see these are the download
method formats leading the streaming
standard by little way an interesting
one coming up in the standards committee
if you care is that they're actually
working on one too many transmissions so
we can actually do multicast streaming
at some point in the future we hope so
how do you get data on and off your
phone this is a question we get asked
quite often them what we draw a new here
is a complicated diagram which like goal
is in three parts at the top of the
diagram your local area your office your
home or whatever on your right the
cellular network and on the left the
Internet so one obviously you can get
content on on off the phone of course is
locally you may be able to use Bluetooth
infrared a USB cable a memory card and
so on to move content from your personal
computer to inform your phone once
you've got content on your phone of
course you may be able to send it as a
multimedia message and like an email to
another person on the cellular network
if your carrier supports it so that's
the the diagram over over there are we
here also that seem multimedia message
you maybe just generate one from your
phone here and send it through a gateway
to an email address to somebody or out
on the internet again so there are
gateways being built that will do
conversion of multimedia messages to
email and indeed don't do it the other
way sometimes if you're lucky
again depending on your operator you can
sometimes be generated email over on
your on your computer here and have you
come through the Gateway and end up as a
multimedia message on somebody's cell
phone similarly there are web browsers
and the ability to use HTTP on some of
these cell phones and they can load
content either through a gateway or off
the Opera operators hosted Network off a
web server so you may be able to put
content in some suitable way onto an
HTTP server and then access it both from
your laptop machine and from from your
cell phone so you actually have quite a
way of working with your cell phone with
other people's cell phones and as I say
you're going to have to talk to your
operator about what is possible in each
of those environments so with that I'm
going to turn it over to ELISA who's
going to introduce you to all the
exciting work engineering group it did
in 63 so the natural progression of
defining a standard hopefully is there
will be peculiar and Apple was very
pleased to announce in early June the
release of QuickTime 63 which provides
support for the 3gpp standard with
native support for AC and AMR mpeg-4
h.264 video 3d text and the 3gp file
format where this puts QuickTime is that
now we have the first widely distributed
3gpp player for the desktop we have the
first low-cost 3gpp authoring tool and
we are the tool of choice for the
world's first standards-based 3g network
service with NTT DoCoMo's mobile mp4 I'm
ocean service so what does it actually
mean Dave talks through some sort of
theoretical examples about how data
could be moved back and forth but what's
actually happening now well as an
example we've been working with docomo
where their content created a
professional content creators are using
QuickTime to create content that then is
distributed over their network to their
mobile phones and this for example is
one of NTT DoCoMo's phones for I motion
that supports 3gpp playback another
example is that users that have one of
these i motion phones or any 3gpp Club
capable phone can capture content on
their phone through the video camera it
can then be distributed through the
network either now to the desktop using
a QuickTime Player or of course to
another phone the evolution of this will
be that users can also just create
content on their desktop that can then
be mailed over to over the network to a
phone for viewings so the thing that's
very exciting about this is not only is
QuickTime the first mainstream 3gpp
authoring and playback tool but all of
the applications that QuickTime supports
also now become instantly available to
create mobile media content so you see
of course final cut pro 4 on here which
now can create 3gpp content and a host
of other applications that are built on
our SDK in addition to the ones that
Apple has like iMovie for example now
can all create and pick for in 3gpp
content so what does this mean for you
well hopefully what we've what this
means for you is that we've opened up
with this new launch of QuickTime a
whole new market for you to create tools
for and there are new customers that
we've never talked to before and that
maybe you've never had a chance to
create products for the customers now
our operators these are mobile operators
that need tools for content for editing
and for management they also we also
have new content owners that want to get
content onto mobile phones that maybe
not have not used a quicktime based
tools before and in addition we have a
whole bunch of end users that have lots
of content so they want to simply and
easily create for mobile phone usage and
where are the real opportunities what
we've been talking about Japan and often
people into Asia to see what's happening
in the telecommunications market but
there are real strong predictions for
the revenue value there with mobile
media services and we've been talking
about some examples NTT DoCoMo and Jay
phone both have 3gpp compliant handsets
joke emma has rolled out a full 3g
network and json is moving very quickly
to roll out their network as well when
you look at Europe they also have a
variety of 3gpp handsets that are
available right now this for example is
the sony air
p 800 which comes with a native 3gpp
player on it there has also been 3g
launches by Hutchison in the UK Sweden
Italy Austria which is an honor and
Australia which isn't in Europe but
close that was my bad and finally there
are opportunities right here in the US
so you can buy a 30 Nokia 3650 today
from several of these operators up here
I imagine that they'll soon be shipping
some of these other mobile mobile
multimedia handsets as well with varying
services and coverage as we progress
sort of in the same style as the
Japanese market and the European market
so an investment in 3g is an investment
in these ongoing greater and greater
bandwidth telecommunication technologies
and Dave promises me that there's
something called 4G well their variety
of companies doing things the labeling
4G is not actually terribly well defined
in the Indus or it may be variously
defined well by various people and your
thing a variety of companies that are
deploying high-speed what data oriented
networks from the traditional cell phone
networks with some at least heritage
from the editor 11 family in terms of
how they do radio network management and
so as i say more data oriented but
they're trying to get a reach much more
like cellular network so it's kind of a
hybrid approach obviously 802 11 Airport
you've seen how many base stations we've
had to put the coverage of this building
there's no way you're going to build out
a national infrastructure or something
with a reach that of that kind they have
a very different cost and deployment
model so these are very different these
are not typically the traditional
telephony operators or traditional
telephony cost models and deployment as
I say the more data centric and the
traditional cell phone networks in
general I think this is good news for
those of us in the multimedia community
as I say it doesn't really matter to us
whether you're using licensed bandwidth
for unlicensed and works as long as we
can get the bits on to the devices so my
belief is that we're going to see a
whole mishmash of services that you'll
be able to get a very high speeds on 802
11 a medium speeds maybe on some of
these 4G networks if you're lucky and
they're deployed in your area and quite
decent network great for the 3g
works again if you're lucky and you live
in Japan or they happen to get deployed
in your area so you're going to see
these things coming along but from the
meantime the the big operators are
rolling out 3g and particularly
multimedia in across very large areas
obviously entire countries or continent
so at this point what I'd like to do is
give you a demonstration of using a
QuickTime multimedia and cellular phone
and I'm going to choose an application
here that's done absolutely nothing to
warrant being in this presentation and
that they've done nothing special to
support QuickTime 3g at all the
application actually is one that's worth
knowing about in the first place and
it's called I view media pro and this
application is designed for cataloguing
and managing media assets it has lots
and lots of features I'm not going to go
into it I'm not supposed to be
advertising it here it allows you to do
version control the thorn and here I've
taken a seminar that Frank and his team
did and split it up into short clips and
so for example here's a clip phone where
he's talking about 3gpp other Jerry
Sanders well Frank shank on it and and
if we look through the seminar we can
find also the clips when his Rhonda and
so on and Frank introducing stream on
your game you can even just check the
clip right there in the in this window
if you want to this program actually
uses QuickTime to cattle to help it so
with it katalogi and have a lot of
functionality built in as well don't get
me wrong but they're using QuickTime
here to play back these clips and they
also as it happens then use a the
quicktime api's to the hilt and that's
why i'm demonstrating them so i'm going
to choose a couple of those the two that
i just showed you and i'm going to ask
it well why don't you convert those
movie files and what they do is they
scan to see what QuickTime exporters are
available and they offer them so this
application i have to say again was
written and this version shipped before
we shipped our 3g support but man it
just works this is good application
programming and i encourage you if
you're an application developers to do
as well as this so i'm going to choose
export to 3gpp and here we can bring up
the settings so care the choices we
offer you our tour to important 3gpp
releases and where they allow different
services and the ntt docomo zone
this magnitude release five dot one here
again as I say you can choose h.263 I'm
take 4 i'm going to pick h.263 because
i'm going to create content that i want
to be widely applicable for lots and
lots and lots of phones and that's the
mandatory codec 176 x 144 that's a good
size I don't want it to be seen smaller
than that and let's hope the phones of
that big and in this case i'm running a
seminar so i'm going to let it be speech
content and in this particular case we
didn't have a text track pick the data
rates you've seen this kind of
interaction with our mpeg-4 export
dialog we can pick a data race and the
keyframes and so on and in speech i'm
going to let it use all the bits at
cannock so it's not as if a speech codec
uses a lot of the channel even when you
allow it to really crank and it's a mono
content and as I say there is no text
track and here we could set up to
restrict distribution if we were going
to aunt Edie Giacomo service but we're
not here and I don't need the Center for
streaming we will hint it for streaming
but in this case I don't need to so that
sets the options i'm going to choose a
folder here to put them in 3gp file
sounds like a great folder name when I
click Choose it runs the export
operation on all the files I chose so
here it is cranking through this is
actually transcoding from a pic 42 h.263
so it's taking a little longer than if i
started with base content and if we look
we find we've got a couple of 3g files
in that folder now the other cool thing
about this application is that they
really did their homework when they give
them the file if they don't recognize it
themselves they say the QuickTime hey
could you do something with this file
and if the answer is yes then they will
they allow you to catalog is as well so
actually you can catalog the content
that came off your phone or you've
actually coded ready for your phone so
here again is the same click but now
cloak toted ready to go out to a fun
third generation partnership project yep
and here we are stumbling on the phone
so at this point what we could do is
take those and transfer them to a phone
so here we have the Eclipse i'm going to
pick one of them i have here plugged in
you can just see it flashing blue if
you've got really really really good
eyesight this is a bluetooth adapter
that i've plugged into the machine that
somewhere way down here and so we've got
bluetooth on this on this machine and so
if i drag this on top of the bluetooth
file exchange then it comes up and it
says well how about Frank's 3650 I
happen to remember this one so i didn't
have to search for it i have Frank's
3650 here I stole it from him yesterday
and when we click send it's going to say
are you sure this phone likes this kind
of file I can say yes I'm sure and the
phone goes them beep and says do you
want to receive this message and I say
yes and you'll see the progress bar goes
and the phone and the progress bar goes
and and the progress bar there's nothing
like working in a noisy radio
environment to watch progress bars is
there come on here it goes and then when
it finishes downloading and this went
like anything but before all you guys
came into this room this is very cool
this is using a Bluetooth service
substandard bluetooth file exchange
service which both we so the phone beeps
I say show and it comes up and holy cow
is the real one player and yes so here
we see wonderful interoperability I can
constantly claim we didn't write the
player on this phone you saw somebody
else's logo this is what it's all about
we're interoperating on a public
standard and as a result we've got a
wonderful wealth or opportunity somebody
else wrote the fight the player on the
sony ericsson p800 somebody else to gain
wrote it from the doc mobile phone and
we're playing on all of them this is why
you've got a nice big sandbox to play in
now you've got lots of opportunity to go
out there and create interesting content
[Applause]
so having got you all excited about this
stuff where can you go for more
information let me go through some of
that so obviously the first place you're
going to go to is quick times on website
and you're going to find out about our
mpeg4 and 3gpp support which you can
find at apple.com / mp4 / 3gpp don't try
and say that out loud yourselves 3gpp
specifications good news here the public
bad news of course 3gpp defined
specifications for everything from radio
modulation through all the numerous
interfaces in the network and you could
learn how to build your own cell phone
network if you read all those
specifications which means there's a lot
of them but they are public you can find
them at 3gpp org their website there
you'll find for instance the mr codec
and file form codec specified the file
format is actually specified by the IETF
believe it or not you shouldn't need to
read about the mr codec we've done that
hard work for you we've got it
implemented but the 3g file format in
the multimedia services you might want
to look at and as i said before you
might want to pull down to six two three
four if you're really curious about the
details of what you can do in terms of
some codecs and so on and i'd suggest
you look at release five if you're
intending to go there and take four
specifications I'm not public however
there you can buy them publicly by going
to the ISO website WWF o th ph because
they're in switzerland mpeg-4 is the one
for 496 family of specifications
currently up to part 12 which is the
multimedia file format the iso file
format part 12 and i think they've
actually hit 14 or 15 at the moment but
the part you're curious about probably
is part one systems and maybe the audio
part where you'll find the specification
for air you see if you're curious itu
specifications you can get from the ITU
believe it or not they're an
international treaty body so they
actually have an int domain name there w
wi tu int and that's where you'll find
h.263 if you're curious though you've
had h.264 in quick time since I can
remember there are related technologies
if you're excited about cellular
telephony and what you can do with that
and your max and your Mac os10 obviously
you should know that I think and I
encourage you to learn about it there
isn't a developer session this week
because it's a user not a developer
technology
but this allows you today to sync up
your contacts in your calendar really
easily use this Bluetooth and other
means of communication with the phone
but bluetooth is the one that works
beautifully course and bluetooth allows
you as a developer to do all sorts of
fun things not only with you were here
last night but last night the salmon
clicker actually won best of show for
the Mac os10 design award and that's the
program that runs cooperatively between
your Mac and a cell phone that has
bluetooth that allows you to control
anything at all on a Mac os10 you can
Apple script which is very cool and he
did that because he knew how to use
bluetooth so that was a great piece of
software you should get up on top of the
Bluetooth technology if you don't know
about it and you're a software developer
with that I'm going to tell you about
the other sessions coming up today don't
stay in this room it's going to be
dreadfully boring they're going to tell
you all about how to administer a server
for heaven's sake instead we have lined
up for you a swedish chef who's going to
tell you how to cook tout content for
your own cell phones back in the room
around the other side but after that you
should stay in there and listen to these
advanced quicktime interactivity just to
have some fun the session that was going
to be in here Wi-Fi 3g has unfortunately
had to be canceled so don't come back
here for that session because it won't
be happening tomorrow however there's
lots of fascinating quicktime sessions
come to the QuickTime feedback forum of
course at three-thirty and tell us what
you think about quicktime on what we
ought to be doing or what we did wrong
or what we did tell us what we did right
sometimes ok and I'll Friday there's the
final quicktime sessions if you have
developer questions about quicktime
technologies then obviously Guillermo is
your man quicktime man at apple com and
if he's not your man he's really nice
heel forward you to the right person ok
so if you've got any questions and after
the show and that's the only email
address you remember don't worry he'll
put you in contact with us and then of
course developer general developer
information that Apple is in the usual
places on the apple website don't miss
the labs happening this week if you're a
Content developer if you're an
application developer if you're guarding
developer hey and you've got something
to do with QuickTime come to us talk to
us in the lab without your pro
about what you're interested in about
what you want to do about things that
you're not quite sure about and will
help sort you out laughs happening all
week and if the right expedition in the
room they'll try and trace them down
okay so this is your great opportunity
to get in front of QuickTime engineers
and finally put down marketing people
indeed even in front of QuickTime
lawyers if you have a question about
that aspect of our operation and they
will try and answer your question